[V2-3572] keeping your site fast (#50)
volusion/element-documentation: explanations/keeping-your-site-fast/README.md

# Keeping Your Site Fast

> As you may already know, Element is optimized for speed. By following the advice on this document you can keep your speed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you may already know, Element is optimized for speed. By following the advice in this document, you can keep your speed
```

> indicators in green. The fastest experience possible will please your users and your earnings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
indicators in the green. The fastest experience possible will please your users and your earnings.
```

> indicators in the green. The fastest experience possible will please your users and your earnings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
indicators in the green. The fastest experience possible will please your users and increase your earnings.
```

## Reduce the Number of Requests Performed in the Server

> If you need to fetch data in the server side render phase for SEO purposes, think which data you really need in first

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you need to fetch data in the server side render phase for SEO purposes, think about which data you really need in first
```

paint and delay the information that can be fetched in the client. For example, in a product details page, we can

> fetch the product data in the server but delay the cart data to be fetched in the client, as there is no value on server

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
fetch the product data in the server but delay the cart data to be fetched in the client, as there is no value gained by server
```

side rendering the cart.

Remember that the `componentDidMount` lifecycle method only runs in the browser. It is safe to make any browser requests
inside that method.

## Parallel requests

Always fetch your data in parallel and avoid sequential data fetches if you can. We already discussed this here on
[fetching data fast](/how-to/fetch-data-fast).

## Keep Your Block Size Small

One of the easiest ways to explode your block size is by adding dependencies. For example, instead of adding the entire `lodash`

> library, use the individual functions packages and install as needed.

Reviewer 3: could you provide a code snippet on this? 1) for lazy readers skimming and only reading code snippets, 2) I think it took us a few tries to get that syntax right.

Author: Do you have an example on how you did get it right that I can use @divinentd?

Reviewer 3: `import isEqual from "lodash/isEqual";`

Author: @divinentd Thank you, added.

Additionally, if you are using a package that will be used exclusively in the client like an input validation library, consider

> adding the script in the head tag instead of adding those extra KB to the block bundle. This is how you can do it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
adding the script in the head tag instead of adding those extra KB to the block bundle. Example:
```

```js
constructor() {
  props.addScript('https://unpkg.com/accounting@0.4.1/accounting.js');
}
```

## Make Sure Your Dependencies Are Bundled Once

> Related to the previous advice, if you have five blocks in your page, and you install on each of them the `lodash` library, you will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Related to the previous advice, if you have five blocks in your page, and each one has the `lodash` library installed, you will
```

be bundling that library five times. Instead, follow the advice presented previously and add the `lodash` dependency once as a script

> in the head of the html.

Reviewer 3: Do we have logic so that if the same script is added to multiple blocks, it only gets loaded once? If so, we should mention that. If not, it's still good advice, the second time it gets loaded it should be cached by the browser.

Reviewer 2: @divinentd yep, looks like that was merged in already: https://volusion-product-team.atlassian.net/browse/V2-3458

Author: @divinentd Keen in mind scripts can be added both as part of the head, or dynamically. The use case you are referring too seems to be the dynamic in browser script loading. In any case, we have protection in both cases, when added in the server and when added in the client. Feel free to add a not as you see fit.

Reviewer 3: Great! I thought I remembered somebody mentioning that. We could highlight that performance feature here.

> in the head of the html.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
in the head of the html. If multiple blocks load the same script, Element is smart enough to only load it once.
```

> In case you are unsure, installing a dependency means running `npm install dep_name` and then, importing your dependency in your block code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In case you are unsure, installing a dependency means running `npm install dep_name` and then importing your dependency in your block code.
```

## Keep Your CSS simple

> Keeping your CSS simple is another way of creating fast sites. This will also help you making your site AMP compatible.

Reviewer 3: Maybe a remind people of the 50Kb rule, and that that's for the entire page. Does css-in-js count towards that? If not, then we should recommend minimal external CSS.

Author: The only css accepted in AMP should be added in a `<style>` tag. The css-in-js at the end is just a string put inside a `<style>` tag. For AMP you can't have external CSS but is not the scope of this document to teach how to be AMP compliant. Another doc is required for that.

Reviewer 3: Cool, in that case the advise you're giving sounds right.

## Avoid SetTimeouts and Blocking Operations

Make sure your timeouts are not run in the server as it will slow down and block your requests. Feel free to use timeouts but only after

> the block is hydrated in the client. A rule of thumb is avoiding those operations in the `getDataProps` function and on block constructor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the block is hydrated in the client. A rule of thumb is avoiding those operations in the `getDataProps` function and in the block constructor.
```
